Great now we have both a working table prepared here they are a work office supplies customer list and
work office supplies transactional data.
Let's open both of them up customer list transactional data.
Let's pull the transactional data to the right like that.
And today I wanted to talk about something that we briefly noticed in the previous tutorial.
So I will try put these files closer together so we can zoom in a bit here what you can see is the thing
that we noticed is that customer ID here has a random number of characters here a customer id always
has seven characters.
So Can You Spot The Difference like what happened that changed in this file or that this prison in this
file in this table that's not present in this table.
Why these are the same customers ultimately but why do they have more numbers here and less numbers
here.
Well the answer is that because the leading zeros were lost in this table somehow.
So here you've got 673 here you've got six out of three.
But here is preceded by four leading zeros.
So here here anything any leading zeros were lost and that happened that didn't happen in our Because
of what we did.
It happened in the rafał and you can always revert back to the RAW file to check that.
So you just go back to customer.
So in this case what does this file customer list.
Raw customer lists you quickly check OK.
No leading zeros.
You can also go back to the CATV file to the original and check there no leading 0 so the person that
supplied you the file when extracted the data lost the leading zero.
And this happens often happens a lot and I bet it has even happened to you in Excel.
You know when you're doing a view look up and you can do a look up because one column has leading zeros
another one doesn't and you have to fix it up.
Same thing here.
We've got to fix it but we're not going to leave it until the time when we do need to collect the files
because here we can obviously see that this is the only column that is common between the two files
and we will be connecting on this specific call.
So we want to make sure that all files are structured like are structured in the same way and these
columns both either have or don't have leading zeros.
So I suggest putting the leading zeros back and I will show you how to do that today.
And in fact we're going to incorporate it into our proc for this file for the office supplies customer
list.
So let's go ahead and do that right now.
So I'm going to where am I going to do.
I'm going to click here and I'm going to open a customer list proc modify.
And here if I scroll down to the bottom when I'm inserting into the file so this doesn't change the
create table.
That's good.
I created a table.
I do have enough space for the zeros that's great here.
I'm inserting into that table also good.
This part has to change.
So by the way you can just highlight and see what you're selecting.
If I execute this part you can see that I'm selecting customer the city's zipcode gender age and I'm
inserting that into that table.
Here you can see that there is no leading zeros and obviously that's the way they're going to be answered
.
So we're going to correct that in this select statement and then we'll test it like this.
And then we will rerun the insert part.
So let's do that.
It's going to be a great exercise.
Customer ID I just want to add leadings there is this handy trick on how to add leading zero's and I'm
going to show you now.
So if you remember this trick you won't ever have to look it up again anywhere else.
You will always just not do it.
You have to know the way this works.
Let's add as many zeros as we can on the left for instance.
We know that there's supposed to be seven characters in total so let's add seven zeros.
So I'm going to go one two three four five six seven right.
Seven doesn't look like so.
Now that is seven seven zeros Plus customer ID right.
So now if I select this because this is a bar chart and this is a string because I put it in quotation
marks what you're doing with the plus sign is it just adding the two strings is the same as in Excel
.
You'd put an ampersand.
But here we're going to put a plus.
So if you select this now and you execute you see that you know there's too many so there's way too
many characters in the custom ID.
But that's not a problem.
Now this is where the trick happens what are we going to do.
We're going to cut off only seven symbols but we'll start from the right.
So we'll go from the right for every single one of these rows we go we're going to go from the right
.
We're going to count so in symbols and then we'll chop off the rest of the zeros we'll we won't care
about whatever is remaining we'll only take the seven.
Most characters of each of these cells.
And that way regardless of how many originally you had in this column of fathers are you going to have
seven characters.
So the way to do it is to just type in super simple right.
Then you take this in brackets right.
The expression that you want to cut or extract from and then you put a comma or a comma and how many
symbols you want extract seven.
So now if I select this execute voila all done.
So there you go.
Now we have seven characters in each column and they are leading zeroes and starting each row and they're
leading zeros.
That's how easy it is to replace your leading How to it is how to return your leading zeros.
Or you know put really the leading zeros into your column if they got lost.
And this is how we've been testing select execute.
So now all we need to do is insert as you remember if I just do this I will add records into my table
so that does that for fun.
You'll see even though it says 43 in fact now there's going to be a six records in this table.
Just have a look.
So I'm just showing you how dangerous it can be to insert into a table that already has data.
So I clicked a 5 there and you see I've got 43 red cards.
And then it starts again.
So just by doing that one mistake I've inserted an extra number of records and that's why it's always
good to have these checks so I hear you might even have a check like this.
So for you and that's why I put the work table at the top because it's more important you might have
another check.
Select star or select count star.
Right.
So at the end after I've done anything you check all you're like whoa whoa whoa.
The 86 records or if you did this a couple times then you select and you go whoa was it 344.
Something went wrong.
And the way easy way to fix that didn't just go up.
Truncate exit could truncate the table insert into 43 rows so.
Copy that here and select count 43.
And just check your table all done leading zeros are there.
And so that's how you return the leading zeros back where they're supposed to be.